// 2020 - 04 - 08 //

For this third and final learning project I will be learning the Django framework for Python.
As a goal, I hope to make a functioning web application that uses Django for backend support.
To begin with, I started my making familiar with Django using Mozilla's instructional materials, located at the following URL: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django
While I began by using Mozilla's introduction and tutorial set, I'm still undecided whether I will continue to work thorugh Mozilla's tutorials or to utilize LinkedIn Learning.
This week I was able to gain an introductory sense of Django's capabilities and set up an environment to test Django in, next week I will try out some of the video resources on LinkedIn Learning.
In particular I plan on viewing "Learning Django" and "Building RESTful Web APIs with Django" next week and making some progress on building something deployable.


// 2020 - 04 - 16 //

This past week the two main areas I spent time on were beginning the "Learning Django" video series and continuing to work through Mozilla's Django tutorial set.
I was glad to get started on that video series even if I did not begin applying any new concepts in a hands-on way.
I also felt that the Mozilla tutorials picked up and covered some more interesting aspects of the framework than they had covered in the tutorials that I completed the previous week.
This week the Mozilla tutorials covered all necessary basic concepts for data modeling and using Django's built-in ORM and for using and configuring Django's admin interface.
Next week I hope to complete the Mozilla tutorial set and perhaps watch a few more "Learning Django" videos on LinkedIn Learning.


// 2020 - 04 - 22 //

I felt good about the degree to which I was able to accomplish my goals for this week.
I continued to make progress in the Mozilla tutorials, completing two full substantial sections of tutorial.
Although I didn't complete the Mozilla tutorials I had intended, the tutorial sections this week were quite a bit longer and more involved than previous sections and I believe that I am finished with the most significant building tutorials and will now be moving on to infrastructure and deployment concerns which will be very interesting.
Additionally I was able to complete roughly half of LinkedIn Learning's "Learning Django".
I am thus far pleased with Learning Django especially with how it has complemented my studies of Mozilla's educational project.
Approaching the final checkpoint, I plan on finishing the Learning Django course and its accompaniying project and then completing the Mozilla tutorials.
As a stretch goal for the final checkpoint I hope to be able to try out some deployment configurations with the Mozilla site.


// 2020 - 04 - 29 //

My goals for this week felt accomplishable initially but I hadn't considered the time I would lose due to it being the end of the semester and other classes demanding more of my time relative to other weeks of this project.
I was able to finish the Learning Django video course and I was able to finish the Mozilla practice Django site but I was forced to take some shortcuts on the tutorial and omit some of the deployment tutorials that I was looking forward to.
I was unable to accomplish deployment of any kind beyond local operation which was disappointing but not catastrophic.
Although I didn't get to spend any time on my stretch goal, I feel that I essentially accomplished my goal for the week.


-- Checkpoint 3 --

Looking back on this project I think that it was probably the most polished learning experience and smoothest combination of conceptual learning and practice.
This project may have been particularly fluid due to the popularity of Django and to the lack of technical complexity when compared to my previous areas of study (the AWS ecosystem and Hadoop).
Although it was a more accessible framework and I felt that on some level I didn't learn as much new material as the more challenging technologies, I think that I probably came away with the most new skills that are at a level of practical application.
I think that my learning materials were fairly strong but given the wealth of resources on learning Django I suspect that I likely didn't maximize resource quality by shopping around as much as I could have.
If I were to advise someone who wanted to learn Django I would recommend the LinkedIn Learning course that I used and I wouldn't *not* recommend Mozilla's tutorial series but I would recommend glossing over it before committing to the whole series and doing some browsing in other places.
Having said that, Mozilla's resources are free in addition to being extremely comprehensive so that availability might also be an advantage for many learners.
Moving forward, although not directly related to improving my skills using Django, I hope to learn a lot more about web site/app deployment infrastructure and how that ties in to other popular technologies that I've studied over the course of this semester such as AWS products.